# Counter C00149: Poison the monitoring & evaluation data

* **Summary**: Includes Pollute the AB-testing data feeds: Polluting A/B testing requires knowledge of MOEs and MOPs. A/B testing must be caught early when there is relatively little data available so infiltration of TAs and understanding of how content is migrated from testing to larger audiences is fundamental.

* **Playbooks**: Playbook 1: Distort TA demographics by posting irrelevant content, misleading demogaphic data, etc.
Playbook 2: Work with the media platform to distort publicly available metrics. Can we work with Twitter to get crappy off-brand memes artificially bumped without needing to create fake accounts, etc.?
Playbook 3: Use adtech to promote content inconsistent with TA demographics. If the adversary is reverse engineering a groups demographics by analyzing ads placed on the platform/group, by spamming ads for out-group stuff it may distort analysis of the group.
Playbook 4: Distort Google Trends and other publicly available source of metrics using bots, cyborgs, adtech.
Playbook 5: Distort TA emotional response to content/narratives.
Playbook 6: Promote damp squibs. Within a known TA promote/inflate crappy off-brand memes which are unlikley to resonate.
Playbook 7: Detect early trending/engagement and undermine the content by responding with 5Ds, toxic community behaviour, satirical responses, etc.
Playbook 8: If adtech is used, fake clicks and engagements on the content.

* **Metatechnique**: M008 - data pollution

* **Resources needed:** 

* **Belongs to tactic stage**: TA12


| Actors | Sectors |
| ------ | ------- |



| Counters these Tactics |
| ---------------------- |



| Counters these Techniques |
| ------------------------- |
| [T0020 Trial content](../techniques/T0020.md) |
| [T0046 Search Engine Optimization](../techniques/T0046.md) |
| [T0057 Organise remote rallies and events](../techniques/T0057.md) |
| [T0063 Message reach](../techniques/T0063.md) |



| Seen in incidents |
| ----------------- |


DO NOT EDIT ABOVE THIS LINE - PLEASE ADD NOTES BELOW