# Incirlik terrorists

* **Type:** incident

* **Name:** Incirlik terrorists

* **Id:** I00007

* **Summary:** Fake story transmitted from Russian media to Trump campaign

* **Year started:** 2016

* **Countries:** Russia , USA

* **Found via:** 

* **Date added:** 2019-02-24
 

| Technique | Description given for this incident |
| --------- | ------------------------- |
| [T0010 Cultivate ignorant agents](../techniques/T0010.md) | I00007T002 cultivate, manipulate, exploit useful idiots (in the case Paul Manafort) |
| [T0019 Generate information pollution](../techniques/T0019.md) | I00007T001 RT & Sputnik generate information pollution (report an unreported false story/event) |
| [T0053 Twitter trolls amplify and manipulate](../techniques/T0053.md) | I00007T004 Twitter trolls amplify & manipulate |
| [T0054 Twitter bots amplify](../techniques/T0054.md) | I00007T003 Twitter bots amplify & manipulate |
| [T0056 Dedicated channels disseminate information pollution](../techniques/T0056.md) | I00007T001 RT & Sputnik generate information pollution (report an unreported false story/event) |


DO NOT EDIT ABOVE THIS LINE - PLEASE ADD NOTES BELOW

Actor: RT/Sputnik

Timeframe: 2 weeks

Date: July-August 2016

Presumed goals: 

Method: 

Counters: 

Related incidents:  

* Jade Helm exercise
* Black Lives Matter protests
* Bundy Ranch standoff

Notes:

Story was that the Incirlik NATO base in Turkey was under attack by terrorists. 
2016-08-14 Paul Manafort cited that the Incirlik NATO base in Turkey was under attack by terrorists, as an example of an unreported true story. 
“The weekend of July 30, RT.com and Sputnik reported 7,000 armed police with heavy vehicles had surrounded Incirlik air base in Adana, Turkey, where 2,500 U.S. troops are stationed and some 50 U.S. nuclear weapons are stored. The two Kremlin-funded outlets suggested that the lockdown was in response to another coup attempt after a faction of the Turkish military failed to overthrow Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.”
“On the evening of 30 July 2016, my colleagues and I watched as RT and Sputnik news simultaneously launched false stories about the U.S. air base in Incirlik, Turkey being overrun by terrorists,” he told the committee. Within minutes pro-Russian social media aggregators and automated bots amplified this false news story,” Watts said. “There were more than 4,000 tweets in the first 75 to 78 minutes after launching this false story. Perhaps the most stunning development for Watt and his companions was that the rapid proliferation of that story was linked back to the active measures accounts (Russian bots) they had tracked for the preceding two years. These previously identified accounts almost simultaneously appearing from different geographic locations and communities amplified the big news story in unison,” Watts said. The hashtags promoted by the bots, according to Watts, were “nuclear, media, Trump and Benghazi. The most common words, he said found in English speaking Twitter user profiles were “God, military Trump, family, country, conservative, Christian, America and constitution. The objective of the messages, Watts said, “clearly sought to convince Americans that U.S. military bases being overrun in a terrorist attack.”

Data

* Looked at Twitter for these dates: https://twitter.com/search?l=&q=incirlik%20until%3A2014-08-14&src=typd
https://twitter.com/ElectionLawCtr/status/492850603039522816


References: 
* https://www.rt.com/news/354042-turkish-police-incirlik-nato-coup/
* https://sputniknews.com/middleeast/20160731/1043797161/incirlik-turkey-erdogan-nato-nukes.html
* https://www.politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/2016/aug/16/paul-manafort/trump-campaign-chair-misquotes-russian-media-makes/
* https://wtop.com/j-j-green-national/2017/09/anatomy-russian-attack-first-signs/slide/1/ 
